[Workers] learning revision (#2783)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/workers/src/content/learning/how-workers-works.md

# How Workers works

Though Cloudflare Workers behave similar to [JavaScript](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/serverless-javascript/) in the browser or in Node.js, there are a few differences in how you have to think about your code. Under the hood, the Workers runtime uses the [V8 engine](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/glossary/what-is-chrome-v8/) — the same engine used by Chromium and Node.js. The Workers runtime also implements many of the standard [APIs](/runtime-apis) available in most modern browsers.

> The differences between JavaScript written for the browser or Node.js happen at runtime. Rather than running on an individual's machine; for example, [a browser application or on a centralized server](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/glossary/client-side-vs-server-side/), Workers functions run on [Cloudflare's Edge Network](https://www.cloudflare.com/network) - a growing global network of thousands of machines distributed across hundreds of locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The differences between JavaScript written for the browser or Node.js happen at runtime. Rather than running on an individual's machine (for example, [a browser application or on a centralized server](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/glossary/client-side-vs-server-side/)), Workers functions run on [Cloudflare's Edge Network](https://www.cloudflare.com/network) - a growing global network of thousands of machines distributed across hundreds of locations.
```

> The differences between JavaScript written for the browser or Node.js happen at runtime. Rather than running on an individual's machine (for example, [a browser application or on a centralized server](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/glossary/client-side-vs-server-side/)), Workers functions run on [Cloudflare's Edge Network](https://www.cloudflare.com/network) - a growing global network of thousands of machines distributed across hundreds of locations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The differences between JavaScript written for the browser or Node.js happen at runtime. Rather than running on an individual's machine; for example, [a browser application or on a centralized server](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/glossary/client-side-vs-server-side/), Workers functions run on [Cloudflare's Edge Network](https://www.cloudflare.com/network) - a growing global network of thousands of machines distributed across hundreds of locations.
```

<figure><NetworkMap/></figure>

> Each of these machines hosts an instance of the Workers runtime, and each of those runtimes is capable of running thousands of user-defined apps. This guide will understand some of those differences.

Author: ```suggestion
Each of these machines hosts an instance of the Workers runtime, and each of those runtimes is capable of running thousands of user-defined applications. This guide will review some of those differences.
```

The three largest differences are: Isolates, Compute per Request, and Distributed Execution.

## Isolates

> [V8](https://v8.dev) orchestrates isolates: lightweight contexts that group variables with the code allowed to mutate them. You could even consider an isolate a sandbox for your function to run in.

Reviewer: I have no idea what this sentence means. What's the `code` referred here? The `code allowed to mutate them`? I think I understand the beginning of the sentence, but this last part makes no sense to me. So the V8 engine coordinates isolates. Isolates are "lightweight contexts" that group variables with some code. Is this correct up until here? The rest I don't understand.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/2783/files/5fdf026fd834625e30b98681fd0a9ddba36728e3#r756746851

> [V8](https://v8.dev) orchestrates isolates: lightweight contexts that group variables with the code allowed to mutate them. You could even consider an isolate a sandbox for your function to run in.

Author: ```suggestion
[V8](https://v8.dev) orchestrates isolates: lightweight contexts that provide your code with variables it can access and a safe environment to be executed within. You could even consider an isolate a sandbox for your function to run in.
```

A given isolate has its own scope, but isolates are not necessarily long-lived. An isolate may be spun down and evicted for a number of reasons:

- resource limitations on the machine.

> - a suspicious script - anything seen as trying to break out of the isolate sandbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a suspicious script - anything seen as trying to break out of the Isolate sandbox.
```

}
```

> When a request to your `*.workers.dev` subdomain or to your Cloudflare-managed domain is received by any of Cloudflare's runtimes, the Workers script is passed a [`FetchEvent`](/runtime-apis/fetch-event) argument to the event handler defined in the script. From there you can generate a [`Response`](/runtime-apis/response) by computing a response on the spot, calling to another server using [`fetch`](/runtime-apis/fetch), etc.. The CPU cycles it takes to get to the point of the `respondWith` call all contribute to the compute time. For example, a `setInterval` timeout does not consume CPU cycles while waiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a request to your `*.workers.dev` subdomain or to your Cloudflare-managed domain is received by any of Cloudflare's runtimes, the Workers script is passed a [`FetchEvent`](/runtime-apis/fetch-event) argument to the event handler defined in the script. From there you can generate a [`Response`](/runtime-apis/response) by computing a response on the spot, calling to another server using [`fetch`](/runtime-apis/fetch), etc.. The CPU cycles needed to get to the point of the `respondWith` call all contribute to the compute time. For example, a `setInterval` timeout does not consume CPU cycles while waiting.
```
